upload report on face mask detection (#86)
auvzhcet/Documentation: docs/computer/student_Reports/Acoustic Source - Mohd Hozaifa Khan.md

> ![AUV LOGO](../auv-logo.png)

Author: Sure.

---

Submitted by: **Mohd Hozaifa Khan**

Mail: [mhozaifakhan98@gmail.com](mailto:mhozaifakhan98@gmail.com)

Work during: _15 April - 13 May 2020_  

In collaboration with:  *Syed Jawad Akhtar & Mohd. Omama*

Under the Guidance of

**Dr. Saleem Anwar Khan**

_Associate Professor, Mechanical Engg, ZHCET_

_Teacher Incharge_, **_AUV Club_**

Submitted on: 20th July 2020

---

## Summary/Abstract

One of the possible ways of localising an AUV for Navigation purposes is to determine the location an acoustic source wrt itself and calculating the relative positions accordingly. Therefore the task for Sound Source Localisation or SSL is extremely important. In this report I have covered the most basic aspect of SSL which is localisation of sound source in a plane using 2 microphones.

---

## Content

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
3. [Methodology](#methodology)
4. [Results and Performance](#results-and-performance)
5. [Problems faced](#problems-faced)
6. [Conclusion and Scope](#conclusion-and-scope) ( _proof read required!!_)

> 7. [Further Developement](#further-developement)

Reviewer: Typo!
It should be Development.

### SSL

There have been various techniques and methods developed for SSL. Multilateration has already been in application for many years. Others methods are Beamforming, Eigen Vectors based, Neural Networks based, etc. To read in detail click [Here][review-paper] for a Review paper on SSL.

### SSL: TDoA

One of most used multilateration techniques is TDOA or Time Difference of Arrival method. It is similar to Inter-neural.  

Consider the simplest case of Multilateration and TDoA for sound source localization.

Take for instance a sound source S and two detectors or microphones M1 and M2. The simplest case is to determine on which side does the source lie with respect to the centre of line joining M1 and M2. Let's refer this point as O.

The possible answers to the Questions _"Which side does the source S lie with respect to O, M1, M2?"_ can be **right** or **left**. A more accurate answer could the angle in degrees or radians subtended by source S at O from Line M1,M2. *Determining this angle in essence is a rudimentary form of Sound Source Localization*.

> Due to the unsymmetrical arrangement of Source, there will be a phase difference and hence a path difference in the waves recieved by M1 and M2. Calculating this path differennce can help calcuate the angle.

Reviewer: Calculate(typo)
```suggestion
Due to the unsymmetrical arrangement of Source, there will be a phase difference and hence a path difference in the waves received by M1 and M2. Calculating this path difference can help calculate the angle.
```

> Practically, instead of calculating path difference, it is prefered to determine Time difference between the arrivals of sound at the two detectors or micrphones. Hence, the technique is called *Time Difference of Arrival* method or **TDOA**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Practically, instead of calculating path difference, it is preferred to determine Time difference between the arrivals of sound at the two detectors or microphones. Hence, the technique is called *Time Difference of Arrival* method or **TDOA**
```

> Most of the developement in this technique has been on improving the accuracy of calculation of Time Difference of Arrival. It has been either Hardware based improvement or more accurate Mathematical approximation to the process of determining TDOA. The mathematical improvements have been fcoused on Cross-correllation is performed. The most famous being GCC, GCC-PHAT and SRP GCC-PHAT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the development in this technique has been on improving the accuracy of calculation of Time Difference of Arrival. It has been either Hardware-based improvement or more accurate Mathematical approximation to the process of determining TDOA. The mathematical improvements have been focused on Cross-correlation is performed. The most famous being GCC, GCC-PHAT and SRP GCC-PHAT.
```

---

## Technologies Used

**Language**: Python 3.7

**Libraries**:

+ PyAudio  0.2.11
+ SciPy 1.4.1
+ NumPy 1.18.1
+ LibROSA 0.7.2
+ Matplotlib 3.2.1

**Technique** : TDOA (Multi-lateration)

**Hardware**:

+ 2 Microphones ( Samsung in-ear Headphones )
+ 2 Audio to USB convertors

> + Laptop

Author: There was no excessive requirement. Just a normal laptop to run python and have enough ports would work fine. So, I will just mention my laptop configurations though it is not associated with the technology.

> + Laptop

Reviewer: You need to mention the possible least requirement.
Edge case!

---

## Methodology

We have simply tried to determine the direction of arrival with a resolution of **90 degrees!!**. In simple terms : _left or right_.

> We haven't gone with the sophisticated way of calculating TDOA or imporving the accuracy of Cross correllation using GCC (Generalised Cross-Correlaltion). We simply determined the sign of Rxy (Cross Correllation Coefficient) and determined the orientation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We haven't gone with the sophisticated way of calculating TDOA or improving the accuracy of Cross-correlation using GCC (Generalised Cross-Correlation). We simply determined the sign of Rxy (Cross-Correlation Coefficient) and determined the orientation.
```

> We didn't try it practcally, but a simple ArgMAX of Rxy gives the TDOA, which can be used for Angle Calculation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We didn't try it practically, but a simple ArgMAX of Rxy gives the TDOA, which can be used for Angle Calculation.
```

## Results and Performance

Work is incomplete to mention any result.

Resolution: not Measured Yet.

Accuracy: Works in some cases.

---

## Problems faced

### Lack of Audio jack ports

> First problem was the lack of no. of input *AUDIO ports*. Most of the Microphones currently support AUDIO jack as input to system. There are mostly single USB jack port available in a PC, Board, etc. It was very difficult to recieve acoustic data from 2 diffrent devices at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first problem was the lack of no. of the input *AUDIO ports*. Most of the Microphones currently support AUDIO jack as input to the system. There is mostly a single USB jack port available in a PC, Board, etc. It was very difficult to receive acoustic data from 2 different devices at the same time.
```

#### _Our Solution_

> We used audio jack to USB convertors since there are multiple USB ports available in most of devices. Also, PyAudio provides support to create two independant streams to listen to different audio ports. Hence, we were able to collect and process data from two different microphones simultaneously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We used the audio jack to USB convertors since there are multiple USB ports available in most of the devices. Also, PyAudio provides support to create two independent streams to listen to different audio ports. Hence, we were able to collect and process data from two different microphones simultaneously.
```

---

## Conclusion and Scope

> SSL is very important and essential capability to be possesed by any group involved in Underwater Vehicles. Once a successful in-house prototype has been developed, it sets-up a platform to improve further in the direction of Underwater Sound/Acoustic Processing. Furthermore, *it also opens up a whole new domain wherein people (students) can work and most importantly explore*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SSL is very important and essential capability to be possessed by any group involved in Underwater Vehicles. Once a successful in-house prototype has been developed, it sets-up a platform to improve further in the direction of Underwater Sound/Acoustic Processing. Furthermore, *it also opens up a whole new domain wherein people (students) can work and most importantly explore*.
```

> Also, localisation technology is a cross department field and there are numerous future possibilty of research, especially when utilizing Neural Networks.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, localisation technology is a cross department field and there are numerous future possibilities of research, especially when utilizing Neural Networks.  
```

Further advancement in underwater communications will be probably powered by Sound based Routers and Sound WiFi. These are just to name a few.

In conclusion, it won't be an understatement to say that
> _If Underwater is the least explored part of the Earth then Sound shall be the key to open it up for us_.

So, for the future development of the club and for a world-class underwater vehicle *acoustic system* is something we must procure.

---

## Further Development

Currently our project is in very primitive stage where we have only focused on collecting data and verifying it. It was a crucial step but still there is a very large way to go.

Next update is to develop a 360\* acoustic locator which can work for the whole plane using 3 or 4 microphones.

> Later on this Tech has to be transfered to Underwater Localisation using Hydrophones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Later on, this Tech has to be transferred to Underwater Localisation using Hydrophones.
```
